# What is CiviEngage?

CiviEngage is a Drupal module that is downloaded with CiviCRM when you install it on a Drupal site. When enabled, it enhances CiviCRM's core functions for
non-profits focused on community organising and civic engagement work.
If your site is built with Joomla! or WordPress, you cannot use
CiviEngage.

CiviEngage was built to aid community organising, base-building and
civic engagement specifically within the USA context. It provides tools
for managing walk lists for door-to-door campaigns and call lists for
phone banks, and tracking how constituents interact with your
organisation and move through various activities with increasing
involvement over time.

CiviEngage provides:

-   a package of custom fields, reports and features to track the
    history of engagement, involvement, and activities of constituents
    over time. This package integrates with Campaigns and Surveys to
    provide walk lists and phone bank lists.
-   a model of how to conceptualise and best organise information about
    individual constituents, organisations and methods of tracking their
    history of interaction.

CiviEngage enhances CiviCampaign, which you can read more about in the
*Campaign* chapter.

## Scenario: Direct action

Townsville Organisation For Tenants (TOFT) focuses on affordable housing
issues. To impact the decisions of the state legislators on an upcoming
rent cap bill, TOFT made a decision to mobilise several hundred people
for a direct action at the state capitol, but had only two weeks to do
it. The organisers knew that the best way to contact their particular
constituency was by phone and they wanted to know who would participate
in the direct action so they could track each individual's involvement
with the organisation over time.

First, TOFT organisers identified who they wanted to mobilise for direct
action based on specific criteria and information they keep about their
constituency, such as geographic location, issue interests, volunteer
interests, leadership level, etc.

A programme leader then created a Direct Action event in CiviCRM, using
CiviEvent, and added groups of individuals to the event.

Organisers called the list of possible participants from a phone bank
list report (they could also have done this using a participant listing)
and entered the results of each call, such as whether the person would
attend, they reached a wrong number, or had to leave a message.

An organiser contacted each participant several times to ensure that
they would attend the direct action, and recorded the responses each
time. Most organisers reached out to possible participants up to three
times to ensure their commitment to attend.

After the Direct Action event, TOFT staff were able to analyse how many
people said they would attend, how many actually attended, and how
effective their method of outreach was.

## Scenario: Canvassing

An organisation wanted to engage constituents based on what they learned
from individual responses during a door-knock canvass related to the
fair treatment of workers at the local car manufacturing factory. To
find out more about how their constituencies feel about the treatment of
workers and to see if they would like to help, organisers decided to do
a door-knock canvass in several neighborhoods where they knew there was
a high concentration of factory workers.

Staff first defined the target audience based on specific districts in a
city and neighborhood where they knew that there was a high
concentration of factory workers.

To track all their strategies and the people who have interacted with
the organisation with relation to this particular campaign, the staff
created a campaign in CiviCampaign. They then created a survey in
Surveys to record the questions asked during the door-knock canvass.

Staff created an event in CiviEvent to capture who would be attending
the direct action event at the capitol, identified the community leaders
who could help bring more constituents to the event, and added them as
volunteers for the event. So that these volunteers could
collect responses from people they contacted, staff created a walk list
report and distributed it to them.

Each volunteer canvasser visited the locations on the walk list and
gathered the responses on their report. At the end of each day, other
volunteers gathered the completed walk list reports, and entered the
responses directly into CiviCRM.

After the canvass campaign, the programme leaders analysed all the
responses to the canvass survey and used this information to determine
their next strategy to engage their constituency in the issue.

Because the organisation was able track information at every step of
this canvassing work, they achieved a clearer sense of what their
factory worker constituents needs and wants. TOFT was then more prepared
to develop targeted communications that spoke directly to the needs of
this constituency.

Finally, the careful tracking and collecting of data will be used to
inform next steps in their overall strategy to gain fair treatment for
workers in the community. Collecting data in this way over time will
give TOFT a better sense of whether they're able to move their
constituents effectively and achieve impact with their approach.
